Title: Reading Old Things
Date: 2014-01-06 19:00
Category: Personal

I'm learning Haskell. I'm doing this for many reasons, but the most important
is to expand my knowledge and form a more principled understanding of
languages. So, I'm reading a [paper][backus]. It's a very good paper, but the
thing most striking about it is its age. 1977! My father was five. It occurred
to me that I read a lot of old things. I grab interesting books from book
sales, yard sales, thrift shops, and the "Transfer Station & Recycling Center"
(aka the dump). Most of the time they're garbage, but I sometimes find true
gems. It's how I discovered Plato's *The Republic*, among other things. The
best part about reading older books is that they often strip away decades of
intellectual cruft that can accumulate around a subject, be it jargon or just
gross mutation of ideas.  Especially reading some foundational papers, or
books that were written when a subject was still young and exciting, a very
good historical perspective can be developed. I often find a conceptual
clarity that most new books simply don't give.

On the other hand, I've yet to find old code that was truly worth reading. Old
code is frequently buggy, poorly written, or just plain unfinished. No code
remains dormant for too long. The only exception I can think of is TeX.

Observation bias? Perhaps. It could be that that's the only reason these books
have survived so long. Try reading some older books and papers. [Let me know
how it goes](mailto:corey@octayn.net). Have some suggestions for great books
and papers, old or others? I'd like to hear those too.

[backus]: http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/359576.359579
